in this lesson we're going to look at
the benefits and usage of database
resources many applications will use a
database for their durable a persistent
data needs there's different types of
storage and interactions possible
depending on which database solution I
use but the key point of these Solutions
is they have very rich abilities to
interact with the data be that running
certain quer the is or running analysis
the whole point is to get insight into
my
data now yes I could install database
software into a virtual machine I could
create an IVM install any different
database software I want and it would
run but remember that idea of
responsibility generally as a company
what I care about is what differentiates
my company from somewhere else managing
an operating system even managing the
database is generally think that doesn't
set me apart I focus on the app and the
data so there are many managed database
offerings in Azure we think of them as P
Services because it's managed for us but
it's not delivering a complete business
function I still have to write some app
to interact with the database to provide
that business
value now there are solutions that are
based on Microsoft Technologies there
are solutions based on thirdparty
open-source Solutions so we'll start
with the ones based on SQL so remember
SQL Server is the Microsoft relational
database solution so the whole point
about that
relational nature is I can define those
relationships of the data to each other
I have the idea of a fixed
schema so I
Define hey these are the tables I'm
going to have and these are the columns
the attributes and the format they can
actually be so we have this concept of a
table and this is going to apply to
really any
relational this is the point these are
relational database we have this idea of
a table which has that schema and it's
going to
consist of of
rows which are
records and then we have this idea of
columns at the top and those columns are
defined in that schema these are the
various kind of attributes the
properties of the entries that I'm going
to put within here now one of these is
going to be kind of a key this is going
to be a unique Val
value for every record and one of the
things we can do is we have other tables
I could establish relationships between
those keys using a foreign key so I can
normalize the data so I might have a
table for addresses a table for orders
uh a table for inventory and I can
establish relationships between those so
I'm really efficient with how I'm
storing the data that's that
normalization so we're splitting the
data into these very defined sets data
to store in the most optimal way this
comes back from the days where dis space
was really expensive so you wanted to be
as efficient with it as we
can so this idea of SQL Server there's
actually different offerings so there's
Azure SQL
database this is a complete managed
offering there are various skews with
different aspects of scale and different
features but this is complete managed as
a p
service then you'll actually see there's
Azure
SQL
Mi managed instance now the big
difference about this is this is a p
service and there's certain limitations
on some of the features it exposes to
you because it is p it's this
multi-tenant with managed instance
actually runs in your v-net and it's
dedicated instances so I get great
compatibility with existing workflow if
I was going to migrate something from an
on-prem SQL Server to Azure if I was
using maybe some of the more advanced
capabilities I may use this Azure SQL Mi
if we actually go and look there's a
document that talks about the
differences between regular Azure SLE
database and SQL Mi and we can start to
see some of the key things that are very
different so for example one of the big
things we actually have is this idea of
the common language runtime I can use
that with Azure SQL Mi cross cross
database queries I can do with Azure SQL
Mi cross database transactions yes I can
do if we keep scrolling down things like
distributed partition views
there's also things around the agent
that we can do as part of azure SQL Mi
so the whole point of this is if I was
moving something from on premises
running on SQL server today and I was
using some of these specific
capabilities chances are if I have to
have that full set of compatibility this
is the big one this idea of the SQL
Server agent I can't do that with seq
database but I can and with Azure SQL Mi
so depending on what I was
using Azure SQL Mi if I was actually
migrating it might be the better option
for that compatibility and there's a
Microsoft data migration service that I
can actually use to migrate from an
external to Azure database into one of
these Solutions so those are the ones
based on kind of SQL server and then you
have these open source
now there's many different open source
offerings out out there some of the big
ones are my
SQL and
postgress if you're using those today
there's an Azure managed database for my
SQL for postgress for Maria DB as well
actually so once again these are
relational databases but these managed
offerings have things like built-in
backup built-in High availability they
have great scale options they have full
monitoring and so if I have an existing
application today that was using
postgress or using my SQL I didn't want
to worry about changing my code and how
I
interact well Azure has managed database
for both of those and again there's ones
from Maria DB as well they can run in
kind of this special container format or
as VMS and I have a lot of
flexibility in the size and the
performance I actually want
those one interesting note postgress
both of these are relational databases
they're based around a single box
hosting the data and running the various
queries one of the options for SQL is
actually something called hyperscale
that gets me this huge distributed
architecture for the page servers that
host the data well postgress has an
extension called
citus and citus is all around this idea
of multi-
server and basically sharding the data
that means separating out the data over
multiple servers that gets me increased
scale it gets me increased
performance so with the managed database
for postgress there is a hyperscale
offering so in Azure this option here is
its
hyperscale and that uses the postgress
cus extension it gives me that ability
to have things like reference tables
that are replicated to all of the
servers for commonly looked up data in
then it has those distributed tables
that gives me that sharding so this
gives me massive distributed scale over
many
boxes now all of these so far were
existing Solutions it was a Microsoft
SQL Server it was MySQL or postgress and
so there are things we can do to make
them Cloud but there's still those
pieces of software so generally it's a
single primary that we can write to and
we can have aing L read
replicas well then we actually have this
option in Azure called Cosmos
DB this was born in the
cloud what that gives us is there's
multiple models so we have
multimodel and we have
also this idea of different capabilities
around
consistency I.E if I have this
distribute over multiple regions maybe I
can actually write to all of the regions
and then eventually it will get
consistent it will replicate and get
them up to date with each other or maybe
I need a really strong consistency and
only one of them is writable that would
then replicate out or maybe I need it
consistent within a certain session I
reads and the writs are in the same
order no matter what I see within the
the session but other sessions I don't
care about so we have this ability to
pick what I actually want from this I
could actually have a replica to every
single region in Azure if I wanted with
this and the whole point of this multi
model is there's different ways I can
think about data so for example there's
the idea of
documents this is very common where it's
self-describing this could be a Json
document for example so here we commonly
use API like SQL and DB so Cosmos
DB lets me do that if that's what I want
I have the idea of the
column um based interactions the content
rows and columns um have various column
families in how I relate that data
together so I might use
Cassandra as that API and how I think
about using that I can absolutely have
the idea of
tables that key value pair type data um
etcd for example I can interact there's
different apis for the Azure storage
tables and more that I can use to
interact I can even have
graph so graph we think of things like
Gremlin graph is based around the idea
of relationships between things so I
have different objects
that actually have relationships so
these could be nodes these could be
people and then I have edges on how they
relate to each other so maybe this is
kind of
John and John could be the boss and they
have
employees other people here so it's how
I can Define relationships between
different things so Cosmos DB supports
all of those gives me a lot of
flexibility in how I actually want to
interact and once again there are other
offerings in Azure these are the key
ones that are focused around a900 so hey
I want to use SQL Server I'm using SQL
server today I'm writing it for the
cloud I don't have existing limitations
hey a SQL database hey I'm migrating a
SQL database to AIA but I need it to
integrate with my virtual Network or I'm
using common language runtime or I'm
using the SQL agent hey I use as a SQL
managed instance I'm using postgress on
my SQL and I want to a p solution hey
aure manage database for my SQL or
postgress if I need postgress very large
scale high performance hey I'll use
hyperscale I'm writing a new application
in the cloud uh I want to be have this
document based storage so this is not a
relational DB Cosmos DB is not
relational it's what we call nosql
schema list I want to have replicas in
every region I want to be able to pick
my
consistency Cosmos DB